As a kid, I spent my summers with my grandparents on their ranch in Texas. I helped fix windmills, 
vaccinate cattle, and do other chores. We also watched soap operas every afternoon, especially “Days of 
our Lives.” My grandparents belonged to a Caravan Club, a group of Airstream trailer owners who travel 
together around the U.S. and Canada. And every few summers, we’d join the caravan. We’d hitch up the 
Airstream trailer to my grandfather’s car, and off we’d go, in a line with 300 other Airstream adventurers. 
I loved and worshipped my grandparents and I really looked forward to these trips. On one particular trip, 
I was about 10 years old. I was rolling around in the big bench seat in the back of the car. My grandfather 
was driving. And my grandmother had the passenger seat. She smoked throughout these trips, and I hated 
the smell. 
At that age, I’d take any excuse to make estimates and do minor arithmetic. I’d calculate our gas mileage 
— figure out useless statistics on things like grocery spending. I’d been hearing an ad campaign about 
smoking. I can’t remember the details, but basically the ad said, every puff of a cigarette takes some 
number of minutes off of your life: I think it might have been two minutes per puff. At any rate, I decided 
to do the math for my grandmother. I estimated the number of cigarettes per days, estimated the number 
of puffs per cigarette and so on. When I was satisfied that I’d come up with a reasonable number, I poked 
my head into the front of the car, tapped my grandmother on the shoulder, and proudly proclaimed, “At 
two minutes per puff, you’ve taken nine years off your life!” 
I have a vivid memory of what happened, and it was not what I expected. I expected to be applauded for 
my cleverness and arithmetic skills. “Jeff, you’re so smart. You had to have made some tricky estimates, 
figure out the number of minutes in a year and do some division.” That’s not what happened. Instead, my 
grandmother burst into tears. I sat in the backseat and did not know what to do. While my grandmother sat 
crying, my grandfather, who had been driving in silence, pulled over onto the shoulder of the highway. He 
got out of the car and came around and opened my door and waited for me to follow. Was I in trouble? 
My grandfather was a highly intelligent, quiet man. He had never said a harsh word to me, and maybe this 
was to be the first time?
How will you use these gifts? And will you take pride in your gifts or pride in your choices? 
I got the idea to start Amazon 16 years ago. I came across the fact that Web usage was growing at 2,300 
percent per year. I’d never seen or heard of anything that grew that fast, and the idea of building an online 
bookstore with millions of titles — something that simply couldn’t exist in the physical world — was very 
exciting to me. I had just turned 30 years old, and I’d been married for a year. I told my wife MacKenzie 
that I wanted to quit my job and go do this crazy thing that probably wouldn’t work since most startups 
don’t, and I wasn’t sure what would happen after that. MacKenzie (also a Princeton grad and sitting here 
in the second row) told me I should go for it. As a young boy, I’d been a garage inventor. I’d invented an 
automatic gate closer out of cement-filled tires, a solar cooker that didn’t work very well out of an 
umbrella and tinfoil, baking-pan alarms to entrap my siblings. I’d always wanted to be an inventor, and 
she wanted me to follow my passion. 
I was working at a financial firm in New York City with a bunch of very smart people, and I had a brilliant 
boss that I much admired. I went to my boss and told him I wanted to start a company selling books on the 
Internet. He took me on a long walk in Central Park, listened carefully to me, and finally said, “That 
sounds like a really good idea, but it would be an even better idea for someone who didn’t already have a 
good job.” That logic made some sense to me, and he convinced me to think about it for 48 hours before 
making a final decision. Seen in that light, it really was a difficult choice, but ultimately, I decided I had to 
give it a shot. I didn’t think I’d regret trying and failing. And I suspected I would always be haunted by a 
decision to not try at all. After much consideration, I took the less safe path to follow my passion, and I’m 
proud of that choice. 
Will you be clever at the expense of others, or will you be kind? 
I will hazard a prediction. When you are 80 years old, and in a quiet moment of reflection narrating for 
only yourself the most personal version of your life story, the telling that will be most compact and 
meaningful will be the series of choices you have made.